# Data-Preprocessing-for-Machine-Learning-Based-Code-Smell-Detection-A-SLR
Fábio Santos and Ricardo Choren

Context: Detecting code smells using machine learning presents inherent challenges due to the unbalanced nature of the problem and susceptibility to interpretation biases. It is a data-driven process for code quality assurance that aims to detect if a given piece of code presents a fundamental design principles violation that negatively impacts design quality. Researchers in the field have been advised to carefully analyze the internal mechanisms of forecasting models before interpreting the results generated by them.

Objective: The review aims to summarize and synthesize studies that utilized data preprocessing techniques for machine learning-based code smell detection.  And also, to investigate the relationship between data preprocessing and more advanced machine learning techniques, i.e., ensemble methods, deep learning, and transfer learning.

Method: To obtain insights into data preprocessing for machine learning-based code smell detection solutions, we employed a systematic approach, identifying and analyzing 69 studies published up to November 2023.

Results: In data preprocessing, data balancing techniques, feature selection techniques, and filtering emerged as prominent strategies. SMOTE was the most frequently used data balancing technique, while Autoencoder, Chi-square, Gain Ratio, Information Gain, PCA, and CFS were notable choices for feature selection. Tokenization and abstract syntax trees were commonly paired with deep learning or transfer learning methods. Normalization and standardization were implemented for feature scaling. Regarding machine learning techniques used with data preprocessing, 46% of the combinations occurred with at least one ensemble method. Deep learning was employed in 37% of cases. Data balancing techniques combined with deep learning (32%) or ensemble methods (19%) were used most.

Conclusion: The findings of this SLR are an integrated and comprehensive source of information regarding data preparation practices, challenges, and solutions for machine learning-based code smell detection, emphasizing the continuous endeavor towards more resilient, contextually sensitive, and developer-informed strategies within this dynamic field.

To facilitate the linking of files from this repository to our work, I describe them below:

1. Replication package details.xlsx: This file contains details about the search strategy, the selected primary studies, details of the selection of primary studies, quality assessment of the studies, details of data extraction, and the results for each research question.

2. meta-analysis_SMOTE.csv: This is a CSV file containing the data needed to perform the meta-analysis regarding data balancing from studies that sought to solve the problem of data imbalance by applying the SMOTE oversampling technique and comparing the results of ML models with and without this technique and concerning about the issue of data leakage.

3. meta-analysis_feature-selection.csv: This is a CSV file containing the data needed to perform the meta-analysis regarding feature selection. For feature selection, the studies aimed to reduce the size of the inputs to the ML models, selecting the most important attributes of the datasets with different techniques, e.g., GA, Chisquare, PCA, and Wrapper. They also verified the impact of using or not using these techniques in these models.

4. meta_analysis.ipynb: Python script used for meta-analysis to analyze the impact of preprocessing techniques on the performance of ML models (section 6) in two aspects of data preprocessing: data balancing (subsection 6.1) and feature selection (subsection 6.2). Additionally, ANOVA was used to analyze the average impact of different preprocessing techniques (subsection 6.3).

